community.md, before:

---
layout: normal-page
animateHeader: false
title: Sangria Community
---

## Community

There are many different places where you discuss sangria, share your experiences, or ask for help.
Your feedback and participation are very welcome!

### Issues, Bugs, Ideas

If you've got some interesting ideas for improvements or discovered some nasty bugs then feel free to use
[Sangria's issue tracker]({{site.link.issues.sangria}}).
Also feel free to [fork project]({{site.link.sangria-github}}) and create a pull requests - they would be highly appreciated!

### StackOverflow

In case you need some help or support, then you can use [StackOverflow]({{site.link.stack-overflow}}) for this.
When you are [asking a question]({{site.link.stack-overflow-ask}}),
be sure to add <span class="class-name">scala</span>, <span class="class-name">graphql</span> and <span class="class-name">sangria</span> tags, so that other people can easily find them.

### Gitter & Mailing List 

For more general, lengthy discussions or pretty much anything else please join us in the 
[gitter chat](https://gitter.im/sangria-graphql/sangria) (you also use a button at the bottom right) and [google groups]({{site.link.google-groups}}).

### Contribute

If you like the project and would like to support it or contribute to it, then you are very welcome to do so.
You can spread the word and tweet about the project or even better - create a small blog post and explain how you use sangria and graphql.
I'm pretty sure it would be interesting for many people.

Also you can contribute to the documentation or help others by answering questions on
[StackOverflow]({{site.link.stack-overflow}}) or joining discussions at [the mailing list]({{site.link.google-groups}}).
It definitely would be very helpful.

Not to mention the code itself. There is nothing more exciting than hacking some stuff together :)
So please feel free to materialize your ideas in form of code and send pull requests!

## Community Projects

There are several community projects that extend Sangria, or, provide worked examples for various frameworks.

* [finch-sangria](https://github.com/redbubble/finch-sangria)

### Contribute to the Website

If you would like to contribute to this website, then you can find the repo on the [GitHub]({{site.link.website}}).
It uses [Jekyll]({{site.link.jekyll}}) and [gh-pages]({{site.link.ghpages}}).
All URLs and versions are gathered in the <span class="class-name">_config.yml</span>.

Commit message:

Added RB template
Added the RM GQL template, and moved the community projects to the top, per Gitter channel suggestion.

community.md, after:

---
layout: normal-page
animateHeader: false
title: Sangria Community
---

## Community

There are many different places where you discuss sangria, share your experiences, or ask for help.
Your feedback and participation are very welcome!

### Projects

There are several community projects that extend Sangria, or, provide worked examples for various frameworks.

* [finch-sangria](https://github.com/redbubble/finch-sangria) - Simple wrappers around Sangria to support its use in [Finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch). Includes [Circe](https://github.com/circe/circe) JSON decoders that may be relevant to other frameworks.
* [Redbubble GraphQL template](https://github.com/redbubble/rb-graphql-template) - A [Finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch)-based GraphQL stack.

### Issues, Bugs, Ideas

If you've got some interesting ideas for improvements or discovered some nasty bugs then feel free to use
[Sangria's issue tracker]({{site.link.issues.sangria}}).
Also feel free to [fork project]({{site.link.sangria-github}}) and create a pull requests - they would be highly appreciated!

### StackOverflow

In case you need some help or support, then you can use [StackOverflow]({{site.link.stack-overflow}}) for this.
When you are [asking a question]({{site.link.stack-overflow-ask}}),
be sure to add <span class="class-name">scala</span>, <span class="class-name">graphql</span> and <span class="class-name">sangria</span> tags, so that other people can easily find them.

### Gitter & Mailing List 

For more general, lengthy discussions or pretty much anything else please join us in the 
[gitter chat](https://gitter.im/sangria-graphql/sangria) (you also use a button at the bottom right) and [google groups]({{site.link.google-groups}}).

### Contribute

If you like the project and would like to support it or contribute to it, then you are very welcome to do so.
You can spread the word and tweet about the project or even better - create a small blog post and explain how you use sangria and graphql.
I'm pretty sure it would be interesting for many people.

Also you can contribute to the documentation or help others by answering questions on
[StackOverflow]({{site.link.stack-overflow}}) or joining discussions at [the mailing list]({{site.link.google-groups}}).
It definitely would be very helpful.

Not to mention the code itself. There is nothing more exciting than hacking some stuff together :)
So please feel free to materialize your ideas in form of code and send pull requests!

### Contribute to the Website

If you would like to contribute to this website, then you can find the repo on the [GitHub]({{site.link.website}}).
It uses [Jekyll]({{site.link.jekyll}}) and [gh-pages]({{site.link.ghpages}}).
All URLs and versions are gathered in the <span class="class-name">_config.yml</span>.
